FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:


CONTACT:
Alan DeKok
The FreeRADIUS Project
+33 6 12 09 18 40
press@freeradius.org
http://freeradius.org

       FreeRADIUS Authenticates the Internet - Version 2.0.

Chicago, Illinois, 10 January, 2008 - FreeRADIUS announced today that
it has released version 2.0.0 of the server that authenticates you
every time you access the Internet.  Under development for nearly
three years, the server is a major upgrade to the software that most
Tier 1 ISPs use to authenticate their users.

This version enhances the existing WiFi authentication capabilities,
and adds support for EAP-FAST, PEAPv1, and EAP-TNC.  It provides new
features for VoIP providers, including a rich language to express
network access policies.  The Network Access Control (NAC)
functionality has been improved by the addition of support for Cisco's
VLAN Management Policy Server (VMPS) protocol.  The addition of VMPS
enables administrators to more easily establish "quarantine" VLANs for
certain classes of users and devices.

Following on the lead of other Open Source projects like the Apache
web server, FreeRADIUS is the first RADIUS server to support "virtual
hosts".  Virtual hosts enable independent access control policies to
be isolated from one another, lowering deployment and maintenance
costs for complex systems.


  "The release of Version 2.0.0 has been a long time in coming, but I
    think that it has been worth the wait.  The new functionality
    included in this version means that we are extending our lead in
    the space over competing solutions."

                                          Alan DeKok
                                          Leader and Co-Founder
                                          The FreeRADIUS Project


For additional information on FreeRADIUS or on the release of Version
2.0.0, please contact Alan DeKok <press@freeradius.org>, or visit the
web site at http://freeradius.org/


ABOUT The FreeRADIUS Project - Founded in 1999, FreeRADIUS provides
the world's most popular RADIUS server.  It provides authentication
and accounting services that are the foundation behind most network
access techn ologies, including global WiFI and VoIP offerings.  It is
used in nearly 100,000 organizations, including Tier 1
telecommunications companies and ISPs, to authenticate hundreds of
millions of people every day.  The server is Open Source, and is
available under terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2
(GPLv2).

ABOUT Alan DeKok - As the co-founder and leader of the FreeRADIUS
Project, Alan has been working with RADIUS and other network protocols
for over a decade.  He has published numerous articles on a wide
variety of networking topics, and is the author of RFC 5080 ("Common
RADIUS Implementation Issues and Suggested Fixes").  In addition to
leading the FreeRADIUS project, he is actively involved in setting new
standards in the RADIUS space.

- END -
